hey everybody I'm super excited to have
the co-founder and CEO of one of the
companies that I I've admired from the
distance for many years clavio and
Andrew bilak is here um now crazy a9.5
billion dollar I wrote this up a 9.5
billion doll leader in email on multi-
channel marketing for e-commerce and
more right is that is that a fair is
that a fair summary crazy we still have
a long we still have well thanks for
having us we still have a long way to go
but yes I think we're we definitely feel
like we're further along than we were a
few years ago yeah we're getting
somewhere so what's fun for me we we'll
dig in here uh for folks that I'm I'm
interested in personally one piece of
e-commerce which is the B2B side and if
if you're not in it you will find clayo
fascinating like the scale and what it's
learned if you are in it what's
interesting is clavio is one of these
hero companies and the B2B B2B in
e-commerce is huge but it's it is a
vertical which we'll dig into and I
invested early in algolia which is a
search API which became very e-commerce
focused and I was the first real
investor in a company called gorgeous
also on Shopify that Andrew knows and
and if and granted I wasn't I wasn't a
merchant back in but but you would see a
few years ago clavio starting to be a de
facto Choice which we'll talk about
right you go from the upstart to kind of
a leader and it's very interesting
transition point and I think everyone
that's now in especially in the Shopify
ecosystem looks to learn and steal and
borrow and emulate a lot of the the
clavio play book so it's pretty it's
going to be pretty funny to dig into it
but first before we get there I'm sorry
and I'm embarrassed to say this but what
is a clavio just so just so I know what
is the title name what's the name of the
company what what what what is a clavo
okay so what is a clavio yeah so when we
started and night micro founder we
wanted to pick a name for our company
that we felt like would be durable and
agnostic enough General enough that we
want to get kind of lumped in with you
see companies that are either about like
oh about marketing specifically or email
or s and we like we want to build
something more Abra so the name CIO
comes from the word which in Spanish is
a pin or a mountaineering Spike so we
like this idea of if you want to climb a
mountain you need like tools to do it
and so that's what we want to CIO to be
is like tools to get hard things done so
maybe the Amazon of marketing yeah or I
mean hopefully much more than just
marketing we think about it's like hey
how do we just help more businesses be
successful independently so that case
could be a little bit of the anti-
Amazon in there all right so let's get
into the footprint in bit let let's
let's just spend a little bit of time in
the early days so we can we can
understand the company today so you're
so not an overnight success story right
founded in 2012 what was the original
idea and what was the 10x feature like
the one thing that clicked where the
product became sellable like what was
your special 10x feature when you were
feature poor yeah so when we started in
2012 we everybody knows us for kind of
marketing and messaging but we actually
started the first year all we did was we
built a we built a database so our our
kind of view on the world was we wanted
to make it possible that rather than
have to talk to customers yourself like
you know you know synchronously you
could basically take the way you wanted
to treat people and program it into
software but we felt like there was this
mismatch you know especially in we
talked about like in Commerce and Retail
in consumer businesses where you can you
have to choose do I either help all of
my customers and aim for scale or do I
aim for giving a really great super
personalized experience to like my VIPs
yep because obviously you want to do
both but it's like well how am I ever
going to do both I mean do I just have
to hire you know thousands of people
like what's the model and because the
you think about the you know uh let's
say the ltbs the annual spend is so low
in consumer right relatively you can't
afford to build out big teams to do it
you need something in between so we
actually started out you know we had
this idea that what was missing was kind
of like the right way to store data so
you could you know you think about like
when you and I are talking we answer
questions like in real time there was no
database that was good at kind of
analytical queries but also like really
low lades like a few milliseconds so we
spent actually the first year just
building that and so if actually you
talk to our early customers like oh yeah
we built we we we got PLO because they
basically had an API or you know UI that
would allow us to just run queries
against our customers and then they
exported out and what's funny was I
remember walking walking around outside
doing some customer calls checking in
with folks was like back in late 201
2012 and all of our customers were like
hey so would you ever think about
integrating with like exact target or or
you know cont contact or mail champ and
I remember ask them I'm like well how
much do you like love those pieces of
software yeah and they were like well I
don't know we don't have any special
affinity for It's actually kind of hard
to do you know the kind of the more
complex more personalized stuff that you
guys are enabling I okay crazy idea what
if I just built what if we just built
you know those you know kind of
marketing messaging you know email you
know email first now SMS tools and like
oh yeah sure go for it I remember
calling my co-founder after a couple of
these calls and saying I have a crazy
idea how about we just build both the
database and the marketing messaging
tools we'll combine it into one platform
and like that will be our products I
think that was you know when when we
when we started to do that because I
early we were fortunate that we at the
time like send grid you know nowo like
existed so we have to solve all the same
problems that a lot of folks earlier had
had to solve you know we almost
instantly saw folks that were come to us
and say I have this idea for you know
some personalized you know messaging or
marketing I want to do and all of they
were like boy because of the database
you built and because of the you know
the fact I can then design messages and
send them pratically you've kind of
solved all this and like I don't have to
build anything anymore and we actually
started in SAS so I just like every
other you know I know probably
entrepreneur developer like I want to
sell you know to other SAS companies and
so we started down that path I just got
lucky that a buddy of mine had a Shopify
store actually and you know he said hey
can I try try this out and we said yeah
let's go for it and it turned out
actually that that was an even bigger
Market or like the use cases were even
better defined so it was really easy to
get into you know like all of a sudden
we realized we're selling for his one
store and there were thousands of other
people that had more or less the same
kinds of issues and same use cases and
so we could go really fast so that's
interesting so you didn't certainly
didn't start well I guess did you start
with an e-commerce perspective as as a
database apers you figure this out when
you got brought into a store yeah the
big unlock for us was when we were
working with other software companies
like us one of the things we realized
was because they did so many had so many
different functions it was actually you
know our technology was fine the hard
part was kind of teaching people how to
map you know the way they wanted to
treat customers help figure that out in
some sense if you think about in the SAS
World defining what customer success is
they didn't really have a customer
success Playbook they were figuring it
out as they went along in e-commerce
everybody knew kind of the standard
Playbook yes and so they were just more
about like Hey how do I scale it how do
I automate it how do I make it more you
know personal specialized so so so it
soundss like so at first blush
building a very sophisticated robust
database and then adding email seems
like too much work right but it sounds
like at the end and I should know this
this is the secret sauce for clavio
because you as starting perhaps as from
a Technology Center as a database that's
very different than most email or or SMS
companies they're starting off as a a
basic easy to use product but without
that incredible core right and that may
be the special suu because
personalization is hard yeah that was
basically that that was our big betb was
you know I remember talking uh with our
team about this we said hey we think we
can add you know messaging and some of
the marketing Primitives on top of our
database faster than all the existing
say marketing tech companies that just
did you know you know uh marketing stuff
fast and they could figure out how to
build or integrate with somebody kind of
the data parts and we think that proves
yes so we're big Believers you in that
case this was a very much a both end so
one of the things I tell you know watch
all the time is you have to be a little
careful I know people aim for mdps but
sometimes you cut off cards that are
really important in our case you know
having that kind of clarity of like okay
it has to be both of these two things
together and then just setting it up
where I mean for a long time you know
our product teams our engineer teams
thought that way you know we had teams
that were just focused on building
database Tech and that was awesome you
know other teams that were just focused
on building marketing messaging and
Creative Tech and that was awesome and
the coolest part was when you combin the
two together and everybody knew that and
so it was exciting because you almost
had these like two companies working
together to do kind of something was
going to be greater than the pieces and
I probably should know this but but when
you talked about srid and trilo when you
first bolted email on were you using
third party apis for email how does or
did you have to build it all from day
one or how did you phase in what you did
yourself versus what you used as a as a
as a service yeah so I mean our so our
story was I me the first three years of
our company almost three years it was
just two of us so I me we really had to
figure out anything a few apis there's
two of you yeah I mean constraints are
awesome you just you you really I think
the more you automate things away in the
early days like it just compounds over
time right so we really were forced like
anything that took any amount of time we
had to you know write code or whatever
just get to find a way to either
Outsource it or automated went um so
when we started I mean I'd read up
enough on you know gosh like setting up
SMTP servers and mtas and you know
obviously s GD we known about them IDE
previous companies we said well this
makes way too much sense I mean this
kind of solv all the gross problems and
allows us the flexibility we want so
yeah we had a great relationship with
them I mean from day one even through
today and what we decide what it turns
out is like when you get into messaging
the hard part is not so much actually
sending an email like that's pretty
straightforward there's like PL you
could actually you can do that yourself
if you want the really difficult part is
getting it delivered it's kind of the
same way that we think about with Google
it's like hey there's a web spam team
with Facebook or social media there's
like content moderation teams well okay
in a decentralized world with email or
now the same thing bests there's always
going to there's going to be some sort
of spam filtering somewhere right and
people call it deliverability but it's
all the same problem and so the thing
that we realized was you know if you're
sending just so let's say you you know I
don't know purely like transactional
emails or things that you know like
that's very straightforward deliver you
never have any issues because everybody
opens them all stuff when you get into
being proactive you get into marketing I
mean the lines between what is spam what
somebody wants and what somebody doesn't
want y start to get gray really fast and
it turns out I it's a really cool
Evolution amongst email clients gone are
the days where it's like if you use the
word Viagra like that spam and
everything else is like good now it's
it's actually very personalized where
hey you know you Jason you'll stop
getting emails if you just stop opening
them and it's the responsibility of the
person sending it to figure that out and
if you don't then you get penalized kind
of at lar and so that was something we
actually made have build all on our own
and so that was where we kind of Drew
the lines like you know we could use you
know srid to help us like the Mals and
kind of like deal with some of the
technical details but at the end of the
day that the really hard part was okay
how do you increase relevance and make
sure that that from a consumer point of
view that was really good and those are
systems that I mean obviously we got
data to help you know make things more
relevant but we had to figure out like
compute build our own scores and our own
systems to figure that out yeah that
makes sense so you never had to build
some of that base level of functionality
yourself though yeah I mean we kind of
looked at as like I think every you know
every a engineer has to figure this
stuff out is where you going to draw the
line like what are you going to be
really good at what are you
and so we always took the stance of okay
we are going like you know we have much
more like let's build things ourselves
or use open source and really understand
it but in cases where we saw an
opportunity where you know we kind of
knew how a service worked while we just
didn't have the time to build it that
was a good opportunity for us to partner
up and especially with companies that we
thought were kind of moving fast I mean
because the other thing is you want to
pick a service that you know innovate
it's right it's GNA keep moving forward
right so you don't get re limited by
them because we certainly not the same
at all but like we've had that happen
with others where you know we got stuck
because we kind of needed more things
than they faster they can move and then
you have having to build it yourself
anyway so yeah that work definitely
worked well for email and SMTP so let's
talk and then we can fast forward to the
future just about some inflection point
so it takes you a while you're
bootstrapping for a couple years we
could chat about that or not if you want
you fit you you you you you lean into
Shopify when you have a buddy that
exposes you to the system did it take
off from there did it take off when you
got a 100 Shopify merchants and like
preco what were the inflection points
then we can talk about covid yeah sure
so I VI you know the first the first
three years of cadio were really it was
our kind of bootstrapping phase right I
think when we were about after about
three years we gotten
to around you know maybe about a
thousand customers maybe around a
million dollar run rate two it's it's it
took a long time compared to like how
fast you'll expect to go now it took a
long time yeah but we just had this I
guess I think it's the nice part about
boot tra we just have this view it's
like look we're just going to focus on
making sure we really understand our
customers getting building a product
they love so product Market fed and then
we're going to expect the growth will
come from there like we wanted we always
felt like you know Word of Mouth like
every you know we could we did a bunch
of content marketing we did a little bit
of SEO we did a lot of work with you
know Partnerships Shopify and others we
always felt like the best channel for us
to be like somebody cares about us we
want them to be raving about it you know
customers you know whe there's you know
we have a fair number of partners that
are like marketing consultant we just
want them to be rating about us so we
kind of focused in on that and to be
honest we kept trying to forecast growth
but we didn't really know what good
looked like or didn't so it just the
business kind of kept going once we got
about three years in we said like we
actually at this point we're like all
right so we gonna like are we gonna
raise money or is this just going to be
you know I hate the term but like kind
of a lifestyle business or we just going
to kind of grow it as much as the two of
us can handle I think we're both up kind
of op it was cool once we got profitable
it's like okay we know we're going to
survive but now like let's go for it I
mean we've got this you know we've got
this got this product everything's
pretty good we the ability to hire
people that we really want to work with
like let's go for it and so definitely
you know we were you know we we really I
don't think we even understood until we
were maybe about half a million just how
great e-commerce and kind of you know
retail was as a segment and certainly
like I mean we were really fortunate to
get to meet the folks at Shopify really
early days I mean I remember we built
our first kind of integration into
Shopify and then others you know big
Commerce Magento and you know you know
WordPress we did all that stuff way back
in you know 2012 2013 and Shopify just
like exploded and all of a sudden you
know we just realized boy we're talking
to so many Shopify businesses just every
week and so that that was that was a
really fun period because we I remember
one year we were trying to forecast like
what Revenue growth would be and my
co-founder I both had different
estimates and we ended up like blowing
away both of them right and this what
year was this sorry that was gosh like
maybe 2015 I think it was it yeah I
think it was it year this Shopify was
really pulling away from the pack right
it was that that's what people don't get
from the outside Shopify did not
immediately pull away right it was quite
a ways into its Journey when it became
this deao platform yeah I mean we're I
mean they obviously are well past this
point now and got there way before we
did but I we're big Believers in the
kind of the like the in SAS you know
there's kind of this you know it's inste
of like things like kind of againg
towards the mem there's this kind of
like Ence the me so once you kind of
break through and people kind of know
who you are which obviously we were
lucky that we were kind of there when
chop five was doing that right had
broken through that barrier you sort of
become a little bit of this like you
become I think it's wor mouth people
start say oh yeah used that I know what
that is so that's right I think we were
kind of in the right place the right
time and with like a we with a very
similar kind of product EOS of you know
okay let's focus on small businesses and
have a really great you know really
usable product and yeah things just took
off and then I don't back when that
happened what was the Shopify ecosystem
mic I mean were you were were you able
to like integrate on day one with new
merchants or how do they find you as
this sort of smaller but breakout leader
how do they find you and as this Shopify
partner yeah it's a great question I
mean so we we became you know so we did
a lot of content marketing around you
know personalized messaging and then we
start once we realized that you know
e-commerce was going to be a bigger
thing we said okay we started to focus
there um so we said okay let's go with
this vertical Playbook we felt like that
was good because it also at the time a
lot of you know marketing messing
marketing Tech was very horizontal so we
felt like there was an advantage to
aiming vertical and starting that way
and so it was a combination of things
like that helped create some some of the
background noise but then yeah one of
the things I give you know credit to
Shopify for big time they had really
built out the kind of all of the
plumbing to make a great ecosystem so we
it was it was interesting like when we I
me we were at this database we said hey
we're going to build as many connectors
as we can to help people get data in
we'll sort of save them the time having
integration so we built you know 40 50
different you know connectors into all
sorts of different kinds of systems CR
e-commerce platforms platforms payment
platforms all this kind of stuff what
was amazing was you know relative to
others you know some there was a lot of
like like artificial red tape you had to
talk to people they' like maybe take
made be slow and responding the shopi
they had like a great set of apis it was
all self- served at that point there was
a bit of a review process but it was
quick and then they actually you know
because they were growing they were
happy to help you know if they found
things and you kind of could show them
proof points they wanted to help you you
know get distribution they were great in
terms of just you know at the time
whether it was you know kind of
recommending through their teams or just
you know I me had like a kind of a a
listing page a directory just you know
kind of promoting us there so that in
the early days that definitely helped a
bunch and do you have a sense CU when
you look at partner ecosystems and we
could flip it around and talk about
cio's partner ecosystem too yeah it's
almost always a longtail distribution
you could have a thousand apps on
Shopify or Salesforce but it's probably
10 that get half the installs and then
it goes there right and back when
Shopify took off and you were taking off
do you think you got 20% 30% how much of
your new business do you think you got
directly from Shopify do you have a
sense back in the day oh I don't know
yeah I mean it's probably something like
that like yeah I meon we weren't we
weren't as good at measuring it as we
probably should have been or we be today
yeah but I think that's I think that's
right I mean we always felt like you
know we what we wanted to do was if if
somebody had had kind of the operational
side of their business kind of nailed
down so e-commerce that meant like hey
you have a you have a you have a website
you have a way to take payments you have
a way to kind of keep all of your you
know to track orders and inventory and
shipping if you could do all of that
like we wanted to complement that and be
the kind of customer side of like okay
so how do you how do you interface with
your customers what did that experience
look like and you know we just felt like
that was going to be a super important
like complement to any kind of stack and
that I think it's true in e-commerce and
Retail it's true in other in other areas
too um and so in that case like yeah
would think you know was it was a mix of
fobes finding I mean certainly in the
early days a lot of people found out of
us through through shot fight and
through other Partnerships we had and
then over the years I think it slowly
migrated where it became this like okay
we just have this brand around like okay
if you're doing e-commerce and you're
doing you know either it's wrangling
your customer data or doing customer
messaging we're just kind of a good
place to do it now it's I think it's
it's a it's almost like it's so
intertwined it's hard to pull apart um
but that's why I mean I would tell folks
like if you're building stuff like you
want to invest in both right I mean
certainly like the Partnerships we built
have been fantastic and at the same time
like we've built more of our own content
in our own kind of like I know case
studies and resources if you have those
two things together I think it's
investable that's how that's how you can
go the fastest yeah when just a bit of a
perpendicular question on just like the
strategy of pricing and economics as you
talk I'm thinking when you
have clayo or something like it where
some of your competitors are not only
horizontal but pseudo Commodities right
and then you're providing focused value
how do you how do you compare pricing
how do you anchor around sort of known
pricing points in the
industry yeah it's a good question so it
was actually something we kind of BU
sign think about when we started so at
the time you know messaging email was
very commoditized I mean the feeling the
kind of the feeling was well email's
free doesn't cost anything sense so you
there's maybe some infrastructure you
need to do it but it just whatever and
it should it should become pennies and
then you know fraction of the pennies
and all what we felt was different was
we we actually invested a lot in not
just adding in like personalization but
also in doing the attribution side of
helping you figure out what worked so it
think about it it was almost like the a
cost based model which is what like
email had become and we wanted to flip
it to a value based model yep so we we
felt like if we could say hey the value
of the you know the message you just
sent was I don't know it was a dollar
right because I don't know on average
you know he s it to a 100 people and
like 20% of them respond to it and on
average they spent you know X dollars
like you could do the math and do the
attribution correctly we felt like that
could you could change the whole
calculus because the end of the day what
people were really after was growth and
that was actually that was the big
distinguisher differentiator was we felt
like a lot of what marketing Tech had
become was it was basically just to do
stuff but if you ever want to figure out
like what's the ROI nobody wanted to
make that easy so probably I think it
was year number two for us we invested a
bunch in how do we make sure we can
handle attribution internally so you
didn't have to use Google analytics or
something or you know payer some other
software to do it and that's actually
been really true for today so if you
talk to a lot of our customers you know
for years i' get questions like what's a
good open raid now those questions are
gone everybody asks it's like hey what
what's a good return you know what's a
good you know we we talk a lot about
like Revenue per email sent or per
campaign yes people just came obsessed
with it we actually in our product we
just deleted or kind of hid and
deemphasized all of the classic kind of
email metrics things like open rides
click rates all that stuff we just said
hey you can you can find it but it's a
couple Pages deep instead we just said
hey here's the dollars that came out of
this and I think people loved that
because finally they felt like they had
something to Okay the reason I spent so
many hours right building up this
campaign or building up this automation
is because I can see the I can see the
results we also think it help kind of
gamify things it made it a little more
fun when you had something that it's
like hey every month I'm going to try to
drive this number up and then we found
like the cool part was if years in we
talk to customers and they'd say yeah
we've now taken those metrics that you
show us those are now like the kpis for
our business like that's how we drive
that's that's how we our whole team
operates you know if last month you know
20% of our Revenue came from clavio the
goal for the next three months is let's
get to 25 so you're the dashboard you're
the dashboard for the ROI of the company
right that's right that's right that's
right yeah so how so make so sorry go
ahead I say maybe one up point that led
to a big theme that we figured out a few
years in is 2013 2014 that we realized a
lot of companies looked at their
customers as very transactional it was I
you know I drive traffic I run ads I get
somebody show up they buy and that's the
end of it they didn't realize you know
the value of either pre- purchase for
postp purchase that relationships and so
all of a sudden we said like hey you
actually you can drive this yourself and
by the way you know Cayo is a lot more
cost-effective much better Roi than any
advertising you're ever going to do and
so that's where I we started getting
around this idea of hey instead of like
Pete advertising or P marketing what if
we got into like owned marketing you
know kind of the idea of like own media
and so we said okay what percentage of
your revenue is being driven from owned
channels right so that's we think about
things that are direct email you your
weite tax taxing all these kinds of bits
and now our is like how do we drive that
percentage up and up and up to try to
give more of those businesses more
control more ball control where in the
past they felt like if I don't have
somebody else kind of driving traffic to
me if that ever shuts off you know I'm
kind of dead to rights now they feel
like they're building a community you
know a brand an ecosystem unto
themselves and does that push you a
little bit more up market so you could
have those more mature conversations or
can you stay close to your SMB rootes
and do that I so it's interesting like
you people used to feel like that was
only a thing that big Enterprise
customers careed about because they had
scale but we very strongly believe and
the good news is I think all our
partners do too it's really something
you should be doing for day one I mean
once you have one customer that's
somebody that can start talking about
you and your products yes so I think a
thing thing we realized with a lot of
businesses is they said we want to get
started early on it just nobody's get a
Playbook it's so hard to do like I mean
running an an ad campaign on Google or
Facebook or selling on Amazon is so
straightforward if we can't match the
user experience that nobody's going to I
mean just you know entrepreneurs when
they're starting out they don't have the
time so we thought like if we could
match that moreal could start from day
one and actually it would make it easier
for them to you there's no reason why
they can't be driving a lot of their
sales you know from either repeat
customers or helping convert more
customers from day one which just makes
the whole business more likely to
succeed yep and does and just because
it's a fun topic as you you know pricing
based ultimately around the lift you
give right is the Magic in e-commerce
marketing right it's the magic right you
either get you can either send it
trillion emails but what you really want
is a lift right and even modest changes
can have dramatic if anyone sold
anything effects are dramatic right but
if you're pricing that way did it does
it did it slow down sales because you
had to talk through it more rather than
a hyper transactional model and and how
did you with smbs how did you how did
you weigh that trade-off of having to
educate folks more in the buying process
yeah it's a good question so I so this
is one where we just use as juristic so
sorry I didn't finish your answer your
question about pricing so we want to
switch from this like cost based to
Value based model yeah so what we
decided was you know we wanted to be
viewed as you know uh
more really more a premium product it
wasn't necessarily that we were more
Advan we had more bells and whistles we
just wanted to like we would get you the
you know the return that you were
looking for we were serious companies
that really want to grow so we actually
just came up with this juristic that was
hey we're going to take kind of the we
looked at this you know we kind of
looked at the pricing models of
everybody else was out there and said
hey we're just going to charge you know
50% more 100% more and we just made that
model and we felt like that kind of put
us in this like premium spot it's worth
more you're providing more value right
so you're anchoring high you're
anchoring High we found is it was hard
to get people to wrap their everybody
loved the attribution but you know it's
it's always hard just you know to be
convinced like well is that exactly the
right way to you know you do people want
to pay based on you know what they see
and what if the math changes and all
this kind of stuff so we decided it's
like we still would do it our pricing
model is still today is based on
effectively the number of customers you
have and how frequently and potentially
how frequently you message them but what
we wanted to measure internally is we
looked for every single you know
business we worked with what was their
Roi and we had kind of targets of hey we
want it to be at least you know at least
10x at least 20x and so we target that
and so in a way that's like right so
rather than have like kind of a pure
take rate or something like that you pay
some percentage like payment processing
is a really easy one right where you can
just do that it's clear value at it
makes a lot of sense in our case because
we were one step REM moove like you know
what we'll measure that and we'll make
sure that we kind of tune it so it's in
the right ballpark it's never too
expensive but like that gave us a lot
like we felt comfortable knowing when we
talk to customers hey we can afford to
charge a little bit more because we can
draw a you know pretty straight line
between the activities they're doing
inside of clavo and then actual grow
yeah and are you usually at this point I
mean we're all veterans have they used
other products before and then they're
seeing that clavio can give them more is
that the typical flow in today's world
it I think that's yeah me probably the
both of our customers fit in that bucket
of they I mean they're aware of they're
actually aware of email they've used it
for their business in some way but they
they looked at you know gosh doing
automated email just tell so on a appr
fors like there's so much data work to
be done and then well I mean how do you
do the logic and can you do content I
mean how does all that stuff work we
just made that easy there are defin I
mean as we've grown an increasing number
of businesses have come to us kind of
from day one and that is it's a really
interesting group because in that case I
mean everybody obviously knows what
email is but they're not used to you
know like how do I get going from the
start right but in that case it's it's
been it's been more fun because we we've
set ourselves a goal of okay in an hour
how do we make it possible for somebody
that's starting from zero knowledge to
be not just you know know enough but
have set everything up where we can get
them their first customer off an email
or text message based on whatever just
content design they can do in one hour
yeah and that's been really cool because
when people see that kind of like that
that Eureka moment of like oh my gosh I
can't believe I just made a sale really
good things happen one they start
talking about us like crazy but also two
you know they're hooked right they're
going to be looking for that second that
10th that 100th and now they think is
okay this part of how I'm going to grow
yeah there's like a related question I
was thinking about just we're all we're
coming out of covid right so now there's
this new world we this postco world like
e-commerce obviously we don't have to
talk about it exploded during covid
right but why was clavio a huge
beneficiary and the reason I asked the
question is I'm assuming a lot of your
customers look everyone knows that come
March of everyone went online like every
store had to go online but some
customers already were online it's not
the same and and I assume a lot of your
customers were second generation users
they'd already used marketing products
so why did clavo get a huge benefit
right um because um weren't folks
already using other products
beforehand yeah so I mean there kind of
two class of folks there were you know
more digital natives yes uh and
certainly that probably indexes towards
correlates with younger like you know
you know businesses and brands that have
started more recently and then secondly
we saw big you know uptake in last year
is businesses that were maybe originally
brick andmar businesses that had always
been thinking about moving online but
just didn't have a reason to pull the
trigger or was it was on their list but
all a sudden right the like so we look
at we kind of think there were two big
trends that happened last year the first
is like where does the transaction take
place and obviously that shifted from
being in a physical store to online and
there's all the things been there okay
Logistics shipping all like all things
that make that complicated and do they
need clavo the next day is it a first P
like there's like a couple apps you got
to buy to go online is is CIO one of
those and there's others you phas in
later right yeah I right so I we we
definitely feel that like yeah if you're
going to you need to you need to know
your customers and start building
relation with them from day one I mean
you can wait till later but you're
wasting time so that that was Trend
number one the other Trend that clavia
really plays into is not so much for the
trans because we actually C is not we
don't we don't take the actual order
process the payment so we don't actually
care where that happens what was
interesting to us is we felt like what
online adoption was accelerating was the
had the identification or the
deanonymization of who the consumer is
so the analogy we made is like if you
walk into you know say a big box
retailer mean whether it's your first
time in there or your 100th time nobody
has any idea it's it's entirely
Anonymous transactional kind of
experience which may be what you want
but it does mean that it's like there's
no opportunities to contextualize or
know who you are or any kind of
personalization which can be sometimes
frustrating the cool part about online
wise is now because we have this kind of
whether it's an email address or a phone
number or some basic information now all
of a sudden like if you want there's the
opportunity for that business to
actually contextualize your like you
know when you visit your website any
messaging you get and so we felt like
the kind of online a single online
transaction kind of catalyzes that whole
relationship because now you know each
other and obviously it's on the business
to make that useful if it's if it's just
Spam and it's not interesting like well
that's fine like everybody's just going
to unsubscribe or block it yes but it
gave you an opportunity to do that and
so now we think about like postco I mean
the big thing was now we have all these
businesses that whether they're whether
they're entirely digitally native or
there some sort of hybrid they now have
the opportunity to go actually know more
about their customers and they're
finding ways to stitch that together
into the physical right experience as
well as the digital experience so it
actually we have people sending emails
work sure a lot of it is happening where
the transaction is happening online it's
also a lot where the call to action is
like hey come business and store by the
way because we know who you are or youve
told us something about yourself we can
kind of point you to the right place
yeah and so especially for you know
larger more Brands I think that's really
interesting so this whole de de
anonymizing who the consumer is making
it so that consumers if they want to be
known by that business they can start to
build that direct relationship we think
that's a really big Trend and that
definitely really took off last year
yeah that's interesting let's just for
for other Founders an interesting let's
talk about platforms let's first talk
about the platforms you build on and
then let's talk about you as a platform
because it's a fun topic the first one
you talked about how you exploded with
Shopify right I feel like there's a
paradox for Founders today right which
is you want diversification you want to
be in an Ideal World you'd be on Shopify
you'd be on W Commerce you'd be on mag
you'd be on big Commerce you'd be on
whatever just launched out of YC or on
Tech crunch right but shopify's market
share has grown right and so I see more
and more folks who no matter what they
say it makes sense to just bet on
Shopify right and so what have you
learned you've Diversified right you're
on all the platforms but what what's
what are the learnings behind the
learnings on on where these different
platforms are going yeah so maybe a
couple things first is I think you
definitely want to build I think it's
it's a good idea to build you know your
underlying attack so that it's kind of
agnostic right so there's a level of
indirection between what you solve for
and the other folks that today and
tomorrow can solve that you know can
integrate with you or help solve the
problem so in our case the issue was We
Built This database it was great at
storing customer data and helping you
use it we had to find some way to get it
in and so what that meant was we had to
build basically a separate layer that
made it easy to connect to all the
different in our B was you know whether
it was SAS or open source people were
going to choose s gra and build
themselves they were going to start to
choose from a handful of platforms yes
um so I would definitely recommend doing
that like it's kind of worth the extra
investment um now the Counterpoint to
that is I mean certainly like you talked
about like power laws like there are
going to be businesses that just you
know win because they they build the
best products they build the best
technology and certainly shop F has been
one of those and so we knew that was
going to be the case and part honestly
was part of the calculus was hey there's
you know even if there's there's not be
there may be you know a hundred
different let's say e-commerce
platforms but the reality is there's
probably going to be five or 10 that
most people standardize on and the top
one or two are probably have huge market
share just because people don't want to
have to make endless numbers of decision
so we like what we tried to do was we
went to every single partner of ours and
so we start with the e-commerce ones and
basically looked at like who was forward
thinking you know wanted to invest in
building relationships with other you
know soon to be hopefully like us
platforms out there and the cool part
was like I said like Shopify and a few
others they made it so easy to get
started so e we could just tell that a
lot of the EOS was similar so I think
like you kind of I look good
Partnerships it's kind of like pulling
on a string right if both sides aren't
pulling it just it very easy very easy
kind of it doesn't stay tight anymore so
we always looked for partners that you
know kind of where equally invested as
we were and if they weren't that was
okay we just it's like we probably
weren't probably wasn't going to be a
lot of fruit so in this case like it was
definitely like nope everybody's working
the same direction or like you know
helping keep that string tight and yeah
that really took off and again I give
shoy a lot of credit for they I think
were early to this game of realizing
developers and building ecosystem
mattered I think a lot of folks have now
tried to wrench and repeat their
playbook and and it probably gets to
like how we think about it you know as
we've grown like I remember when we
started we realized there were
developers coming to us saying hey can
we integrate with Cayo and whether it's
to pull data out so we can personalize
the experiences we're powering or we
want to help push more data in so you
people can use that for marketing
messaging um yeah I me we looked at
companies like Shopify like twio like
Salesforce as example of companies that
had done this really well and understood
developers and I think it's still early
days for us but you know those were
companies we like Hey how do we
replicate the kind of magic they've
built where people say this is the it's
the best it's the most efficient way for
somebody else to build their own
business yes right integrated with us
we're not the only I mean we're not the
only company that has apis for into a
database to do analytics or to do
marketing messaging but if we if we're
the easiest to integrate with I mean you
know any small start they're going to
put they're going to put their time on
what's likely to you know is kind the
greatest but it's also the easiest to do
and if they can get it out yeah there
going be a temptation as you become a
system of record to to make it easier to
deposit data inside than to remove the
at least the structured form of the data
right yeah I hope that's I mean like a
trend I mean something that we also
believed in you know when we were
building you know effectively B2B
software was you know in in the consumer
world you there's this kind of becoming
less implicit now but there's this kind
of this deal that hey you could use the
platform but the data was never yours so
you know you take a picture and you put
it on Facebook like it's not really your
data anymore I felt like with B2B
software it's like you know for a
business it's going to be so important
that you get that data interoperability
so we just we really tried to partner up
with companies that had the same belief
that felt like okay what matters is data
portability matters and you know the
best part about apis is that you can
yeah you can edit the data and you can
pull it out for other use cases the
interesting part is how do you do a
really good job of making sure that the
people you're working with care about
let's say privacy and security to the
same extent that you
that's a really fascinating I think
Trend that's happen the last couple of
years that we're really very focused on
but at the end of the day I mean we look
at ourselves as we're just the extension
of I mean hopefully a business could
build we're building it just would take
them a while so hey if we can help you
know thousands you know hopefully
millions of small businesses you know
not have to pay that cost all the better
yeah just one let's talk about just for
one second because another topic is
super interesting I think and I may be
misdescribed it for CIO but it's Co-op
petition so as you scaled and this is
natural Shopify adds some low-end
functionality right around email
marketing for sure right to its whole
base Salesforce Commerce cloud has
always had more Enterprise functionality
going back to exact target and others I
found that typically that benefits folks
like clavio because worst case the
customer outgrows some of that solution
and they become a lead like they start
to generate leads for you that you might
not otherwise get even if on day one
it's a little stressful to have a little
more competition what what were your
learnings on that sort of Co competition
yeah totally well first of all yeah I
think it's probably generally true that
you know it's it's sort of like you know
any press is good press so the more
people that are thinking about this is
like it's something that matters
definitely helps you know in the case of
folks we work with we've always just had
very kind of upfront conversations that
hey you know if you want to build what
we built then like just let us know I
mean the world is big enough like we
believe the technology building is like
me it applies to so many different
Industries different vertical like
there's a lot of ways we can direct
ourselves so there's no point to be you
know kind of enemies here like we can
let's be friends and if it doesn't make
sense just let stes the other part is is
like yeah I mean because of this like
openness of you know at least B2B
software just a big believer is if you
build the best product like consumers
are going to kind of customers are going
to demand getting to interoperate with
it and so yes I think competition is
great because it's it's kind of boring
if we just you know if you end up in
these kind of Walled Gardens you know we
talk about this even inside of clayo
like if we can't
build best feature or the bet you the
best use for can't solve for some use
case in the best way and we're just
going to intera we're going to you know
integrate with whoever is the best and
that's frankly makes things more fun
right I me we talk about our product
teams our engineer team we're more in
building like whatever the best possible
experience is rather than the ones that
we know the customers will buy because
it's I know comes bundled with clavo or
or whatever so I I think it's just a
more fun way to work when we got when
when my when we got into CIO we weren't
so much to you know I don't know build a
big business as we just wanted to build
some of the technology that we wished
exist existed and so that's I tell you
know all the engineers of work play do
the same thing look if you're here you
know just to kind of build competitive
modes that's just not that exciting it's
way more interesting and I think for
folks like you and I and that care about
technology just want to see as much
technology in our lifetimes as we can so
let's keep you know the more we can
actually encourage competition the
better yes and certainly when you get
the co- competition it's great because
you know people will do things you'll
learn from them you know kind of some I
don't know some cool user experience or
some way to do something that's kind of
helps us Leap Forward I mean we've seen
that with where you know the early days
there was a lot we you know kind of
borrowed from others right stole that we
thought were great ideas and we don't
get upset when people see you know ideas
or paradigms we've introduced they want
to use them we think that's awesome
right that's that's all the and we're
excited when people kind of enter and
want to kind of help level us up too and
how many employees you have today gosh I
think we're up to yeah maybe 600 700
it's it's a little weird working remote
right because you I I get to meet
everybody you know over zoom and that
you that's kind of fun but when you're
like we used to do these big All Hands
every Friday you kind of got a sense for
how big we were at least you know at
least in our main office of Boston but
now it's yeah it's a little tough you
just get the like little like you know
get the little Zoom ticker right of how
many people are in a you know in a in a
r yeah the funny thing is I didn't and I
want to talk about your platform next
before we're in of time but people
forget as you're growing Co coopertition
is great I think it's a winner it makes
you better right it makes you more open
and then we forget a moment you'll have
a thousand employees soon enough right
no one will have a thousand employees no
partner they working on your problem
right this is what you start it's it's
fascinating like you you you have this
scale and and no one can catch you right
the amount the amount of man hours and
Engineering hours you're looking to
solving this problem by the end of this
year no one on the like there are other
folks in the broadcast but no one will
be spending as many Smart hours as you
are solving your customer problems and
that that becomes that lasts for decades
right that lasts for decades and it's we
forget you you're still a startup in
some ways but in your segment you may
have more people working on you a
distinct set of problems anyone on
planet Earth even today right yeah I
think the challenge I mean culture is
especially as you grow is how do you
make sure every person you know every
Cayo for us every team feels like a
startup within this like constellation
of it is this this larger company I mean
everybody talks about that it's and I
think there's a lot of companies that
done a great job of really like so what
of the organizational structures that
allow you to do that we really think
about that way I mean if you you know in
some sense if if it feels like we've
kind of won or we've you know we solved
the problem it's not very interesting I
we're all going to get bored and you
know like I I would just with like work
on something different so what makes it
fun is when you feel like you're on a
you know a really small team for us to
really small we try to keep teams like
you know two three four or five people
and you you're like you're just this
David versus Goliath like you're trying
to solve this massive problem that
there's whole companies out there that
are trying to solve and it's your job to
be creative and you know figure out how
to embrace those constraints and the
cool part is you're working in this
constellation of all these other teams
that are doing other bits and we know
that when you combine them all together
it's better like that's I think what
makes things fun so we yeah it we try to
keep it that way I mean certainly like
yes there's it's true like we're
focusing more than others but the more
that just feels small feels tight it
feels a little impossible like that's a
fun way to work all right just two one
things I want to hit before we R out of
time but let's just briefly or not talk
about you as a platform so now it's
flipping around right are are there a
few partners that are making millions
and millions of dollars off you right
and how are you nurturing your own
ecosystem are you there yet do you have
a big team what are you thinking about
to nurture your ecosystem okay it's a
great question so we are mean so we are
this a big Focus for us this year so
yeah you know well I I wish I had the
exact names and numbers I know there are
companies that and none of this is you
know are doing like these are great
Engineers developers you know PR folks
doing it themselves that yeah certainly
have built you know companies and
applications around Cleo that are that
have you know hundreds of thousands of
customers that are doing really well one
of the things I think honestly we've not
done a great job is being there for
those you know those those companies
really those those entrepreneurs as
they're growing up and building whether
it's specific to playo or just like a
Bas to us so we're really putting a lot
into that this year and yeah I mean at
the end of the day we think about CIO
done right we should be providing go
back to day one we should be providing
this database that makes it like really
easy I mean we think about as like a
brain for your business it just allows
you to treat people the way you want to
treat them but just at massive scale and
so what would you do with that brain and
how should it act well there are so many
different customer experiences all
different types of media all different
types of use cases different Industries
there's no way can possibly get to all
of those and so if we can end up being
the way that you store all that data and
use it Federate it out that's really
powerful and so we think there's
existing technology platforms that can
leverage what we're doing we also think
there's a whole bunch of Technology you
know companies or platforms that don't
exist yet that can that can help build
around us so our big goals for this year
is how do we make sure we've kind of
opened up I don't think anybody's ever
done this give you all of the apis into
our customer database so it's a little
bit like a SQL database but just really
designed Works kind of customer you know
event data activity data all of our
marketing messaging bits and then say go
nuts and so we know we working with some
a bunch of you know startups now you
know or some larger platforms on those
apis designing those and then I mean we
really want to see it's like can we help
hundreds thousands of other you know
developers go off and build like
self-sustaining businesses that help in
all sorts you know both within retailing
and outside you know help end businesses
or end consumers do more with their data
so it's it's very early for us there but
I I think this is that's why I really
admire you know a bunch of the C talking
about that are true like API driven Tech
driven platforms I think it's just how
you get go the furthest and the fastest
so this should be the year hopefully
that we start to have that inflection
and uh started to take off so hopefully
it's maybe for us you know we think
about those platforms they got there
much earlier but for us 2021 is gonna be
the year we finally take off got it it's
interesting timing okay last with our
couple minutes because I know I'm
curious to other people can we just talk
a little bit about how sales works at
the company right and marketing so are
you I should know how much how much the
S serve versus sales and how does that
just kind of the nuts and bolts work of
how you're selling the product yeah it's
great so I mean for us we're I know
we're unique but we have very wide
distribution very wide so we have you
know we have you can think of big iconic
Brands right that are you know are have
a very high touch you know sales where
they're trying to figure out like
they're going to rip and replace their
database technology along with a whole
bunch of Market we're a real Revenue
driver and it could be hundreds of
Millions billions of dollars for them
you have those kind of cers then we have
the you know offers who are starting
something on the weekends where they're
where they need to start for free so our
start price mod starts out is premium
we've always felt strongly about that we
think it like holds us honest like on
our products and really like forces us
to let the product lead sure and so with
that we've got yeah a big chunk of our
customers I mean definitely the majority
of our customers come into us all self-
sered so they figure out how to use our
product all on their own and again we
just think it's a good kind of Baseline
that we're always trying to like how do
we raise that bar that you can do more
without without feeling like you have to
wait for us to be around right at the
same time yeah remember when we you know
first built out our you sales team part
first couple of you know reps said like
look we want this to be a very
consultative process we want you to know
our chronic cold understand our
customers cold and so yeah I think then
we we have different like kind of to
match up to customers where they want to
be met we have folks that are for
smaller businesses I mean typically for
them they're they kind of know what they
want to do they have a couple of ideas
how do we help them you know show some
value like upfront right so our our
sales team will I this is not normal but
like they'll actually get into the
product help people set up a few you
know whether it's a few emails a few
automated workflows get them to show
them some Roi all before we ever ask
them to you know swipe a credit card and
so we'll do that of any size you you
almost don't you don't care what size
the customer you have the manpower to
cover the smaller customers there no
well that's what our product does most
of the lifting for us on the on the
small side you know usually it's like
when a business is doing
we think about small businesses as a
business that's maybe getting close to a
million dollars a year like in retail
like that's usually a good time where
they're it's a bit of a bigger move for
them so they kind of want to prove
things out but yeah we've always looked
at like I mean how do we go faster right
how do we keep things really high
velocity so we're we're constantly
thinking about like how do we take best
learnings from our sales team our maret
team our customer team that're in a lot
of we talk about this as Trail players
they're figuring out the patterns and
then how we building that back new our
product either so that people can figure
things out on their own or it just makes
us better faster and I think that makes
that makes things fun kind of keeps
things fresh rather than like you're
kind of retreading the same problems
over and over again got it yeah so the
sales team is mostly observing customers
jumping in to help them right and then
you know in theory driving more revenue
from the largest folks the folks paying
a couple thousand bucks is there a line
in terms of sort of ACD or deal size
where you were you we will you draw the
line for sales at the end of the day
it's a couple I mean so I think it's a
couple hundred bucks a month is roughly
where we draw the line of where it self
serve versus talk to somebody but it's
we're I mean it's we try to be very we
we talk we think a lot about like how do
we think work from the customer
backwards so be customer first like one
of the challenges it's very easy to set
up a sale org that kind of meets the way
that you want the world to look at the
end day you have customers from all
place I mean it's unusual for us to have
some huge Brands come in and say hey
look I'm only willing to spend a few
hundred dollars with you today but
that's kind of because I want a proof
concept that and really grow this out um
and we would hate for some like simple
turistic right in a you know form or
something that they did inside the
product to block that out and sometimes
you the cool part about you know let's
say retail and direct consumer is the
businesses grow so fast like you can't
just look at somebody's email address
and know oh that's a huge company or not
I mean some of these companies grow so
quickly the other thing we have to do is
really stay on top of who are the
companies that are who have that really
high trajectory and how do we make sure
that we're sticking with them so that
that's where it almost like you know
between our sales team and our customer
success team you just really have to
match up and kind of watch because I
mean some companies are kind of slow
Growers or lower Growers some of them
just grow really quickly and we have to
kind of tease all that out yeah it was
funny when I I remember the first time I
ever bought a seat of Salesforce one
seat I had a rep he called me I said
Chris bless your soul you can't afford
to talk to me he's like no we think you
might grow bigger he's like it's okay
and that that sales I don't know if
Salesforce does that today when the big
deals are nine nine figures but it
shocked my mind in 2006 when an A in San
Francisco I I I blow my mind I never had
that experience in software before right
but it was smart that was a good early
investment by Ben off right totally I
mean it's all about I mean this goes
back to G which like how do you do
personalization at scale right so
obviously they can that experience I
mean obviously was you know L you still
remember that finding a way to deliver
that like I me obviously that's what
we're doing internally is a little bit
do own stuff is how do we make sure we
can do that right make it as as possible
to still get that kind of magic all
right one last question I know we're out
of time but just to finish up on sales
and marketing it may the answer is no
but our partners channels a big party of
Revenue mix they're they're a huge part
of HubSpot right other folks like
gorgeous that I know get a huge amount
through agencies and partners what what
have you learned there of anything
definitely yeah so I mean the short
answer is yes yeah you know I think it's
all so why is that I mean certainly Cleo
is because we interoperate with so many
other systems that drives a lot of
Partnerships but then a lot of people
when it comes to this category we call
marketing right yeah it's a lot of folks
not understanding are not sure they
don't have the expertise yet about like
what's the right text stack there's so
many options out there and what's what
are the right strategy one of the fun
Parts about marketing and messaging it's
so creative there's so many different
ways to grow yes and so a lot of people
are looking for what those playbooks are
and especially when you're small like
you may not have sometime we find a lot
of entrepreneurs that just don't have
that expertise yet they're the product
person they just haven't figured out
that side so yeah we we I mean from gosh
many many years ago we found that like
marketing agencies you know folks who
were helping on the development side
system integrators or great debt I think
key thing for us was you have
to a lot of people will be kind of
interested but you have to do a little
bit of the work for them of helping them
figure out especially let's say um
somebody selling services what are the
services they're going to sell and how
you can help them package those up uh
one of the things I think is pretty cool
about what we've been able to do is we
put together a program where we actually
taken a lot of like traditionally like
SEO or sem or advertising agencies and
said hey you know like look those are
all paid strategies we think owned
strategies you know email and SMS are
really interesting too we've helped them
to find kind of a way to set up you the
different kinds of packages that are
valuable to them because it helps them
you know set up the kinds of engagements
they want but they also prove a lot of
Roi for their you know for the and
customers so it's a way for us to
basically help people adopt our things
faster that's been awesome so I think
you have but you do have to invest some
time to basically I think set up that
Playbook and the other thing too is you
have to hold the line on you know this
is the Playbook that we care about like
in some sense if you're not you know
kind of on if you don't believe in what
we believe in for instance with email
you know we definitely worked with some
folks that you know still felt like gosh
the best way to do email is just to send
everybody all the time which obviously
doesn't work anymore you know helping
people coach people up on what the right
way to do things are we found some
people were kind of willing to be those
quick Learners and those cre once kind
of had a handful of folks that could
show you could build a business you know
around playo service business obviously
lots of other folks came to us and said
hey how do we get involved in this and
that's been awesome and you have a big
partner enablement team that kind of
works with those folks is that you have
a layer on top of that or is that still
really like like the platform yeah we're
we're mean we're very I think efficient
and skillable in how we do it but like
yeah we' we've had that team for you
know a team working with Partners
working with the agencies again on this
exact kind of stuff right yeah how to
think about the services you want to
provide how you're going to price and
package them I think you if you decide
you want to go down that rout and I
think it's definitely a really good one
I think you can't invest early enough in
that the sooner you do that you just
you'll get more scale go faster yeah
Andrew this was incredible thanks for
spending all the time with us and let me
let me know let us know if we can help
and we we'd love to have you on stage at
SAS annual but thanks for all this time
this was great awesome we'll do it
thanks